types/notes/primitive-vs-object-types.md, before:

# Primitive vs. object types

## How do primitive types and object types differ?

Let's take a look at a primitive type:

```js
let x = 10;
let y = x;

x = 20;

console.log(x) // outputs 20
console.log(y) // outputs 10
```

When working with primitive types, the value is copied from one variable to another. The value is stored inside the variable. So when we change the value of `x`, `y` is not affected.

Now let's take a look at an object type:

```js
let x = { value: 10 };
let y = x;

x.value = 20;

console.log(x.value) // outputs 20
console.log(y.value) // outputs 20
```

An object is not stored inside a variable. It refers to an address in memory. When we copy an object from one variable to another, we are copying the address of the object. So when we change the value of `x`, `y` is also affected.

Another interesting example:

```js
let number = 10;

function increase(number) {
    number++;
}

increase(number);
console.log(number); // outputs 10
```

When we pass a primitive type to a function, we are passing a copy of the value. So when we change the value of `number` inside the function, the original value is not affected.

When you try to log `number` outside of the function, it will still output `10` because `number++` does not exist outside of the scope of the function.

But when working with objects, the behaviour is different. This is due to the fact that the function receives a reference to the object in memory.

```js
let number = { value: 10 };

function increase(number) {
    number++;
}

increase(number.value);
console.log(number.value); // outputs 11
```

## Conclusion

Primitive types are copied by their value, object types are copied by their reference.

Commit message:

refactor: add notes about stack & heap

types/notes/primitive-vs-object-types.md, after:

# Primitive vs. object types

## How are primitive and object types stored in memory?

There are two types of memory locations available: the `stack` and the `heap`.

`Static data` is data whose size is fixed at compile time. It includes:
- The primitive types
- Reference values that refer to objects

Since static data has a fixed size, it's stored onto the `stack`. This means the JavaScript engine allocates a fixed amount of memory.

In case of objects the reference value is also stored on the `stack`, but the object itself is stored on the `heap`. The `heap` is a large pool of memory that can be used dynamically. This means the JavaScript engine can allocate more memory if needed, since the amount of memory needed for an object is not fixed and can change over time.

let's use the following example:

```js
let name="John"
let age=25

let person = {
    name: "John",
    age: 25
}
```

This results in the following allocation:

![Alt text](image.png)

## How do primitive types and object types differ?

Let's take a look at a primitive type:

```js
let x = 10;
let y = x;

x = 20;

console.log(x) // outputs 20
console.log(y) // outputs 10
```

When working with primitive types, the value is copied from one variable to another. The value is stored inside the variable. So when we change the value of `x`, `y` is not affected.

Now let's take a look at an object type:

```js
let x = { value: 10 };
let y = x;

x.value = 20;

console.log(x.value) // outputs 20
console.log(y.value) // outputs 20
```

An object is not stored inside a variable. It refers to an address in memory. When we copy an object from one variable to another, we are copying the address of the object. So when we change the value of `x`, `y` is also affected.

Another interesting example:

```js
let number = 10;

function increase(number) {
    number++;
}

increase(number);
console.log(number); // outputs 10
```

When we pass a primitive type to a function, we are passing a copy of the value. So when we change the value of `number` inside the function, the original value is not affected.

When you try to log `number` outside of the function, it will still output `10` because `number++` does not exist outside of the scope of the function.

But when working with objects, the behaviour is different. This is due to the fact that the function receives a reference to the object in memory.

```js
let number = { value: 10 };

function increase(number) {
    number++;
}

increase(number.value);
console.log(number.value); // outputs 11
```

## Conclusion

Primitive types are copied by their value, object types are copied by their reference.
